Add tutorial example (#548)
triton-inference-server/client: src/c++/perf_analyzer/genai-perf/examples/tutorial.md

  }
]' >$MODEL_REPO/$MODEL_NAME/config.pbtxt
```

2. Download the pre-built Triton Server Container with the vLLM backend from the
[NGC](https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/containers/tritonserver)
registry.

```bash
export RELEASE=<yy.mm> # e.g. to use the release from the end of April of 2024, do `export RELEASE=24.04`

docker pull nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:${RELEASE}-vllm-python-py3
```

3. Launch the triton container to serve the gpt2_vllm model.

```bash
docker run -it --gpus all --net=host --rm --shm-size=1G --ulimit memlock=-1 \
    --ulimit stack=67108864 \
    -v ${PWD}:/work -w /work \
    nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:${RELEASE}-vllm-python-py3 \
    tritonserver --model-repository ./models
```

4. In a separate terminal window, download the pre-built Triton SDK Container
which includes GenAI-Perf and Performance Analyzer from the
[NGC](https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/containers/tritonserver)
registry and launch the container.

```bash
export RELEASE=<yy.mm>
docker run --gpus all -it --net host --shm-size=1g --ulimit stack=67108864 \
  nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:${RELEASE}-py3-sdk \
  bash
```

5. Profile GPT2 via GenAI-Perf

```bash

> genai-perf -m gpt2_vllm --backend vllm --streaming

Reviewer: Do we need the `--streaming` flag? I think it'd be simpler without the flag if we don't need it.

Author: sadly yes.
The streaming flag needs to be revisited because I think it should default to True.

   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 * Neither the name of NVIDIA CORPORATION nor the names of its
   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
   from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY
OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
-->

# Benchmarking LLM

The following guide provides an example on how to use GenAI-Perf
to measure and characterize the performance behaviors of Large Language Models

> (LLMs) using [vLLM](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm).

Reviewer 2: when I read this, my mind thinks that the profiling is being done by vllm. Do we need to point to vllm for any reason? If yes, can we change the "using" verb to something else?

## Setup: Download and configure Triton Server and Client environment

> 1. In a clean working directory, start by entering the following code snippet:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In a clean working directory, start by executing the following code snippet to create a triton model repository:
```

echo '{
    "model":"gpt2",
    "disable_log_requests": "true",
    "gpu_memory_utilization": 0.5
}' >$MODEL_REPO/$MODEL_NAME/1/model.json

echo 'backend: "vllm"
instance_group [
  {
    count: 1
    kind: KIND_MODEL
  }
]' >$MODEL_REPO/$MODEL_NAME/config.pbtxt
```

2. Download the pre-built Triton Server Container with the vLLM backend from the
[NGC](https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/containers/tritonserver)
registry.

```bash
export RELEASE=<yy.mm> # e.g. to use the release from the end of March of 2024, do `export RELEASE=24.03`

docker pull nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:${RELEASE}-vllm-python-py3
```

3. Launch the triton container to serve the gpt2_vllm model.

```bash
docker run -it --gpus all --net=host --rm --shm-size=1G --ulimit memlock=-1 \
    --ulimit stack=67108864 \
    -v ${PWD}:/work -w /work \
    nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:${RELEASE}-vllm-python-py3 \
    tritonserver --model-repository ./models
```

4. In a separate terminal window, download the pre-built Triton SDK Container
which includes GenAI-Perf and Performance Analyzer from the
[NGC](https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/containers/tritonserver)
registry and launch the container.

```bash

> export RELEASE=<yy.mm>

Reviewer 2: Is this needed again?

> docker pull nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:${RELEASE}-py3-sdk

Reviewer 2: do we need to list pull commands? Won't a run command pull if it doesn't exist locally?

docker run --gpus all -it --net host --shm-size=1g --ulimit stack=67108864 \
  nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:${RELEASE}-py3-sdk \
  bash
```

5. Profile GPT2 via GenAI-Perf

```bash

> genai-perf -m gpt2_vllm --concurrency 1 --input-type url --output-format vllm -u localhost:8001 --streaming

Reviewer: Double check these args. Input-type is not prompt-source. Output-format is no longer used, you'd want to use --backend. I would make sure to run and test this code to make sure it works.

Author: This command line matches against the MVP release.
I have already created a ticket to ensure that this line is updated with 24.04 which has a more streamlined and appropriately named set of args.

Author: I thought there was an ask to add it to 24.03. Probably way to late for that.
If that is not the case, I will update the command line to ensure that it is all correct for the next release.

Author: Okay, the mismatch between our freeze and release is getting me here.
Our 24.03 release is about to come out. If this doc goes live, it will point to what was available in 24.03,  even if the main branch is updated and cleaner. 
If this doc is not meant to come out til the 24.04 release is available, I can get the PR ready and shelf it for a bit.

Reviewer 2: 24.03 has already released. Any documentation for 24.03 would have needed to be in the 24.03 branch. Anything we put into main should align with what is there in main.

Author: Updated the command line to match main.
Note: I also updated instruction 2's comment to suggest 24.04, because currently it points to 24.03 which would not work with the command we are setting in here.
The suggested command will work with main but this example is not completely valid until we freeze for 24.04.

@tgerdesnv can we still merge this now? or wait until after 24.04 is released?

Reviewer 2: I think we're safe to merge now. We have a disclaimer on our repo about active development

> genai-perf -m gpt2_vllm --concurrency 1 --input-type url --output-format vllm -u localhost:8001 --streaming

Reviewer 2: Why is the tutorial using url? Why not use the default (synthetic)?  
Won't it also by default find the local triton url so we don't need to specify it?

```

> By default, all metrics will saved in the `profile_export_genai_perf.csv` file.

Reviewer 2: Is it worth showing what an output will look like to the screen? Or do we not want to show any numbers publicly?

Author: We know we have some refinement that needs to happen for our numbers. Figured we would wait until after that is in place to possibly out an image of output.
